it's like going to space
[Music]
if I'm working on blue planets I never
even seen a submarine nevermind dive in
one you're well aware that actually what
you're trying to do is constantly
pioneering you're constantly pushing the
boundaries
[Music]
what inspired me about photography was
the ability to share things you'd
witnessed when I was 10 I went on a
school trip to windsor safari park my
aunt had lent me her box brownie which
was a little film camera and the first
photograph i ever took was of that Orca
right up out of the water hitting its
nose on a beach ball there was something
magical about taking that picture that
one moment was frozen their fraternity
much as I loved art I was bad at it
so photography suddenly for me was an
outlet for the artist to me it was like
somebody opening this massive door into
a whole new world
something very fortunate I've worked on
many iconic series you may have seen
like planet earth and life life story
working in teams around the globe is one
of the greatest pleasures actually
it might look like I'm doing everything
but for instance in this submarine was a
team of about nine or ten people around
me that enabled me to be able to film at
the bottom of the ocean to go to the
depths of a thousand meters is way way
more complex than sending even that you
know space shuttle into space there's
probably the most rugged a tower on our
planet it's always an exciting place to
be able to see well the Lancer the sub
will only reach eight to ten meters so
maybe what we can do is pick open both
subs we can use the deep Rover as a
lighting platform yeah and actually be
able to backlight some of this stuff I
think one of the visuals which was
really pleased with is the second
submarine on the opposite side of the
brine core with its light shining down
backlighting the mist of brine almost
like a witch's cauldron it's just
extraordinary on that surface the oceans
always look beautiful sea waves
noosphere but it's all the hidden stuff
underneath
in a way you think what I was so excited
by traveling to Mars went under our feet
we've got things we've never seen before
I think it's really exciting that
there's still a massive part of this
planet that we know nothing about
somewhere still yet to explore
[Music]